'Illegal' election signs go up

By JEN REWELL 

Illegally placed election advertising signs have spread across verges and public land, as hopeful politicians gear up for the state election on March 8.

Most of the signs were illegal until writs were issued on Wednesday, according to Churchlands MLA Christine Tonkin.

"I notice that other candidates are in breach of Town of Cambridge and City of Stirling policy in this regard," she said.

Most councils only allow election signs to be erected on private property for 28 days before an election, which would start on February 8.

This bylaw is being ignored, with political volunteers installing corflutes on sticks across western suburb verges, and hanging banners from fences.

Swanbourne resident Julie Pethick said Liberals "played dirty" over the long weekend, by putting up unauthorised signs promoting Cottesloe candidate Sandra Brewer on large stretches of public land along the railway line.

"It has been great to see most being taken down today, but what a waste of time and money," she said.

Ms Brewer's signs were put on the four corners of Cottesloe roundabouts, on verges and along Marine Parade. "This weekend was really when we started to make an effort," she said.

She said that her team was taking down the incorrectly placed signs.

"Our volunteers were a little too enthusiastic over the weekend," Ms Brewer said.

She said there were seven councils in the area, and they each had different bylaws about election signs.

"Navigating it can be a bit challenging," she said.

Some signs had been defaced with moustaches, horns and vampire teeth drawn on in black pen.

Perth lord mayor and Churchlands Liberal candidate Basil Zempilas said his crew of volunteers knew the rules, and were asked to stick by them.

"Mostly my signs are on private property with the permission of the owner," he said.

"On a few occasions people have moved my signs to places they shouldn't be, and as soon as we get a phone call, we arrange to get them moved."

"I think it's incumbent on every candidate to do the right thing."

Ms Brewer said one of her signs had been defaced with blood and a sexist message.

Mr Zempilas said defacing of signs was commonplace.

"If it bothered you, you wouldn't be involved, but I do feel for some of the candidates not so used to the public attention, they don't deserve to have their signs defaced just for stepping forward to be part of the democratic process," Mr Zempilas said.
