'Deadly' dog to walk free?

By BEN DICKINSON.

A vicious rottweiler that badly mauled a Shenton Park woman, will be allowed to remain at its house in Cambridge, and could walk in public, while Claremont council decides what action to take.

Cambridge would not clarify if the dog needed to be locked up.

The 62-year-old university professor required emergency surgery, after receiving severe injuries to her head and arm, during the unprovoked attack at a dog exercise area at Lake Claremont last Friday.

The dog bit the woman's arm to the bone, then dragged her by the head, as neighbours responding to her screams tried to pull the animal off her.

"If it had been a kid, they wouldn't have survived," she said after spending two days in Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital.

She called for the dog to be euthanised, but Claremont CEO Liz Ledger would not say if the council would seek a destruction order.

The victim, who asked not to be identified, said she was walking her dog with her partner at the Lakeway Street off-leash exercise area shortly before 9am on January 24.

She was approached by the "very large" rottweiler that was "walking around on its own".

"It came up to me and it started to be a bit menacing for absolutely no reason," she said, "My dog wasn't even near me, it was near my partner."

She said she tried to walk away from the rottweiler, but it followed her and became increasingly aggressive.

"It was definitely intent on attacking me," she said.

She shouted desperately to other walkers to try to identify the rottweiler's owner, before the dog jumped on her back, tore her clothes and bit her shoulder.

"Once it had me down on the ground it bit my arm straight down to the bone," she said.

People from nearby houses came running at the sound of her screams.

By the time they reached her, the dog had bitten into her scalp and was dragging her across the grass by her head.

"They kicked and punched the dog to get it off me," she said, "I was bleeding quite badly."

She said the dog's owner walked away during the brutal attack, but was confronted by witnesses who demanded her identification.

"She didn't intervene, she didn't shout at the dog," the victim said.

An ambulance took the injured woman to Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital, where a surgeon stitched her head and arm and administered an antibiotic drip.

She spent two nights in hospital before being discharged on Sunday.

She said she suffered a panic attack on her first night at home and could not sleep.

"I can't lie down because all the stitches are in the back of my head," she said.

Please turn to page 60 and find the article titled "'Deadly' dog to walk free?". I will continue after the countdown: Ten, Nine, Eight, Seven, Six, Five, Four, Three, Two, One, Zero.

"I can't move my arm [so] I can't even look after myself."

While she said she was "lucky" to be alive, the attack has left her shaken.

"It's life changing," she said, "I won't be going to a dog park like that again."

Ms Ledger said the rottweiler's owner provided a written statement about the attack on Saturday, and met with the investigating community safety officer.

"All the relevant information will need to be collated and assessed, and the investigation finalised before the Town decides on the next course of action," she said.

Rangers would "at a minimum" issue an infringement notice, but may also start criminal proceedings in the magistrates court.

"That will be a collective decision made by the Town once the investigation has been finalised," she said.

A criminal conviction carries a maximum fine of $10,000.

Ms Ledger did not say whether the council would seek an order to have the dog euthanised.

She said Claremont had asked Cambridge rangers to check the dog's registration and make sure it was safely contained.

The victim urged the council to seek a destruction order.

"I'm a dog lover myself, but I'm worried the dog's going to do it again," she said.

"If it's a small fine and a slap of the wrist it's not exactly going to be something that they'd regret."

A four-year-old Nedlands girl was flown to Perth Children's Hospital in mid-January, after being mauled by a rottweiler in shallow water at Quindalup beach near Dunsborough.

"It was the most horrendous thing you could imagine as a parent," the child's mother said (Hero Luke saved mauled Nedlands girl, POST, January 18).