Homeless pitch tent, in Claremont park

By BONNIE CHRISTIAN

A couple who set up camp, in a central Claremont park, have highlighted what the mayor says is a growing number of rough sleepers and panhandlers in the town.

Locals and mayor Jock Barker say they are frustrated, there is little in the council’s power to resolve the issue.

The pair, who identified themselves to locals as Aboriginal people who had “the right” to camp where they wanted to, initially set up camp about a week ago, on Public Transport Authority land, near the corner of Gugeri and Langsford streets, near the Claremont CBD.

A few days later, they moved across the road, into bushland in Rowe Park.

Their setup included tarp, strung up across the trees, a two-person tent, and cooking equipment.

Town of Claremont staff responded to multiple complaints, about the camp on PTA land and in the park.

On Wednesday, the pair packed up and moved on.

Mayor Jock Barker said there had been a recent increase in the Town, of people asking for money and, at times, being threatening.

“It’s not good enough, to have elderly and young people in the town being asked for money, near the ATM,” he said.

“I’ve spoken to a number of people about this happening to them, and they have felt terribly threatened.

“I’m concerned that there are these itinerants in the town, smoking cigarettes that cost about $50 a packet, and using iPhones, but then they’re begging for money.

“I’m worried that residents giving them money, encourages them to keep coming back.

“I saw a Christ Church boy give one of these people a banana, and they just threw it on the street.

“They don’t want food, they want your money, and what are they going to do with the money? Go buy more cigarettes.

“There’s definitely been an uptick, of people sleeping rough and asking for money, and why wouldn’t they?

“As long as it goes unchallenged by the council, they will continue to set up their camps here.

“I really think it’s time, that local government was given the wherewithal, to move these people on.

“I’m not being uncharitable, it’s just that they become a threat, or an apparent threat, such as at the bank early in the morning, or late at night. 

CEO Liz Ledger said, the woman living at the first campsite told rangers she was experiencing homelessness, and she was given information on the options available, such as drop-in centres, and asked to move her camp.

“On Wednesday, in response to further complaints, from members of the public, in relation to a new encampment, a community safety officer and the manager attended Rowe Park.

“The same person was at the site, along with another person.

“The Town’s officers had a lengthy conversation with the couple, discussed possible options available to them, and directed them to vacate the area by 3 pm.

“If the camp is still there after that time, WA Police will be contacted.

“There have been no reported incidents of antisocial behaviour, that the Community Safety team are aware of, to date.”

In WA, police and councils have limited powers, to move people on, unless they pose a threat.

It is not illegal, to beg or sleep in a public place. 