Solar warrior to spark Nedlands

By BEN DICKINSON 

A Tesla-driving Wheatbelt councillor, who was dumped by the National Party because of his controversial blog, is running as an independent for the state seat of Nedlands.

Quairading councillor Jonathan Hippisley, who describes himself as a "pragmatic environmentalist", said he believed his environmental policies would be better received in the western suburbs than in his rural shire.

"Driving this car, the local farmers just stare at you like you're stupid," he said from behind the wheel of his Tesla Model 3.

But his views on feminism could alienate western suburb voters.

In a blog post, he theorised that "feminazis" had incited terrorist attacks by promoting access to abortion.

Mr Hippisley lived in Nedlands for 15 years, before moving to Quairading in the mid-2000s.

"There are no old-growth forests in Nedlands, but plenty of people voted for that concept," he said, referring to the Liberals for Forests movement in the 1990s and 2000s.

"I think of myself as a Nedlands person. I think my message will be better heard right here."

Mr Hippisley wants the state government to invest heavily in local battery manufacturing, to help store power generated by solar panels.

He is also lobbying for the state to lift its 5kW limit for solar systems on single-phase power.

His Quairading property has a larger system with batteries on a private circuit, which he built himself for around $10,000. "We're a family of six and we've achieved net zero," he said.

"A quarter acre block receives a megawatt of power from the sun at midday. All you have to do is harvest it."

Mr Hippisley said he used to be a Liberal voter, but disliked Peter Dutton and thought the party had lost its way – particularly on energy policy.

"We really don't need nuclear power," he said.

As a member of the Nationals, he lobbied for the party to contest metropolitan seats, which it is doing this election.

Mr Hippisley said he had expected to be endorsed as the National Party candidate for Victoria Park, until party elders discovered his Wordpress blog, The Grumpy Cat.

"The night before [preselection] they rang me and said: 'Not only will it make you unelectable, it'll make the whole party unelectable'," he said.

In one blog post, titled "Is feminism to blame for the rise of Jihad?", Mr Hippisley wrote that "women in the West rave on about wanting respect, and the need for men to listen to them, but on the topic of abortion they show the pragmatism of Genghis Khan."

"Their intransigence on the topic alienates not only men in their own country, but also whole communities in other parts of the world," he wrote.

"Jihad is waged by people with a violent disposition, and those people will always be violent. But giving them a focus; giving them a cause through which to recruit others, is unwise at best, and potentially catastrophic."

Mr Hippisley said his blog posts were primarily a reflection of his pacifism. "I'm a little bit down on war," he said.

He said he admired the Teal movement and would suggest voters give their second preference to community independent Rosemarie de Vries, followed by the Nationals' James McLagan.

"You've got a lot of good people in the National Party," he said. "One of the issues is the parliamentary leadership doesn't listen to the members."
